<pre>
Dawson Li
Mr. Chon
NBE3U1
20 January 2023
How Indigenous Literature Restores Balance in our Disconnected World
What if I told you that there is a solution to global issues such as climate change, racism, and war? Only those who are ignorant of Indigenous literature will try to dismiss this idea, labelling it as foolish. I used to be one of those people, blind to a significant key to these solutions: balance. In order to find balance as Canadians, we must turn to Indigenous literature since it plays a big role in Canadian society. Indigenous literature teaches important ideologies regarding balance and promotes representation of the FNMI community, which allows for new perspectives to balance out the old, stubborn ones. After learning from Indigenous literature, all Canadians and perhaps all humans will achieve a state of harmony and stability.

If a population of predators wipes out their prey, the population is doomed. Indigenous people realized this interconnection between all living and nonliving things long ago, incorporating it into their ideology and beliefs. These beliefs accumulate and are passed down through generations with the use of oral storytelling and, eventually, literature. The Mi’kmaq, one of the Indigenous tribes in Canada, believe that everything around us is connected and equal. According to their teachings,
[The Mi’kmaq] look above and within and below, and to all the four directions . . . And so in the centre [they] are communicating with the whole cycle of life in all its aspects, in respect for how life begins, and is all tied together. (Augustine)
The Mi’kmaq view all parts of life as connected and equally important. Since all aspects of their life are interconnected, one cannot exist without the rest. They realize that for every life created, the lives of many animals are ended in return. Therefore, the Mi’kmaq only take resources that are necessary for their survival. In stark contrast, modernized countries view the world as a battleground for resources. This materialistic mindset leads many to live a life in constant pursuit of wealth and power. There are consequences to putting a sole focus on economic growth while dismissing the other facets of improvement. One such example is the exploitation of natural resources, which causes an imbalance in nature. When our natural environment loses vital components such as plants and animals faster than it can recover, it leads to climate change and a decline in biodiversity. In order to save ourselves from environmental collapse, we must learn to adopt these ideologies into our culture through Indigenous literature. The world will automatically become more stable once we stop pushing it into a state of disarray.

There are over 60 different Indigenous tribes in Canada, each with its own diverse traditions and perspectives. However, many Canadians are unaware of these cultures because of their minimal presence in mainstream society. The majority of the population in Canada is of Caucasian descent, dwarfing the Indigenous population. With such a large population disparity, the less dominant culture will inevitably have little to no voice. Jennifer Podemski, an Anishinaabe writer and actress, notices this lack of Indigenous representation. She mentions how, "[t]o [her], representation of First Nations people in television and film is so important because very few people know anything about [them]. . . . In school, there was no representation of First Nations people in the textbooks, either. This also made [her] feel invisible" (Podemski 1). Indigenous literature opens up FNMI ideas to be accessed by everyone, which makes the Indigenous presence known. Representing Indigenous people in a truthful manner allows for inclusivity. Indigenous literature not only informs us of facts but also conveys the author's emotions. By understanding the Indigenous perspective, we start to question and challenge negative stereotypes. Over time, this balances the playing field for Indigenous people, which makes it easier to minimize social issues such as racism. Lastly, Indigenous literature is only possible because of the existence of Indigenous people. If they decide that trying to communicate with the rest of Canada is a worthless effort, it will be increasingly difficult to find Indigenous literature, which continues the cycle of ignorance. Therefore, reading Indigenous literature encourages its production and allows us to further harmonize with FNMI in Canada. 

To further understand the importance of Indigenous literature, we must examine a place without it. The example I am most familiar with is China, a country whose government is commonly known for its materialistic approaches to growth and oppressive nature. In the summer of 2018, I went back to China after two years, and I was suffocating; I could not breathe. After two years of living in Canada and breathing Canadian air, I could hardly stand polluted Chinese air. It was miserable to step out of the range of the air conditioner due to the unnaturally high temperatures and humid air. The main reason for this is the little label on the back of your stuff that reads "Made in China". As the world’s leading manufacturer, China establishes trade relations with many countries for temporary profit. To keep up with the supply, the government builds factories at the expense of its natural environment. On the other hand, the Mi’kmaq view nature as a connected piece of the world and treat it with the utmost respect. This is one of the reasons why the climate in Canada is much less toxic compared to China. With respect to minority representation, China is also lacking. In 2014, an ethnic minority in China by the name of the Uighur organized a terrorist attack against civilians in Urumqi, Xinjiang, killing 31 people. According to BBC News, the reason was "[t]he Chinese government's effort to mount a "people's war" against terror has made little headway in a climate where many Uighurs feel they are victims of discrimination, religious repression and economic marginalisation." (BBC News). Many people outside and inside China are unaware because the voices of these minority groups are suppressed. When this happens, the government is free to do whatever it pleases in the public's eye and further raises the tension between these ethnic groups. This is a parallel to how Jennifer Podemski felt invisible and decided to fight back using Indigenous literature. In the case of some Uighurs, they chose to fight back with violence. Comparing these two options side by side, I would much rather choose the first option. China is imbalanced in terms of environment and representation because they do not care about the literature that can guide them in a better direction. However, Canada still has people who have looked after this land for thousands of years, and their stories are all captured in Indigenous literature. As Canadians, we must take the first step and maintain the earth we live on.

By representing Indigenous perspectives and providing unique ideologies, Indigenous literature becomes a tool to maintain balance. It is more intuitive to understand balance through Indigenous literature compared to other literature because balance is tightly linked with FNMI values. Once an equilibrium is reached between everything in the world, it will all become connected, and conflict will disappear. If a balance is struck between us and nature, environmental issues will slowly resolve themselves. On the other hand, if a balance is achieved between the representation of different social groups, it will greatly reduce fighting and allow us to live together. Admittedly, Indigenous literature is merely the starting point for attaining balance since it only contains a fraction of the perspectives in the world. With so many more perspectives and knowledge sources to consult, we must ask ourselves, "Why should we just stop at Indigenous literature?"




















Works Cited
BBC News, ‘Urumqi Attack Kills 31 in China’s Xinjiang Region’. 22 May 2014. www.bbc.com, https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-27502652. Accessed 19 Jan. 2023.
Augustine, Stephen. Interactive Video - Fourdirectionsteachings.Com. https://fourdirectionsteachings.com/interactive.html. Accessed 19 Jan. 2023.
Podemski, Jennifer. Telling Our Own Stories. https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iJ7Z5zYuyYo8PFAgv98pmj0ZIxGIbEw9/view. Accessed 19 Jan. 2023.

</pre>