<center>How do we learn to live together? (Notes)</center>

Topic 1 - Bear Taylor
Quote:
“But the sides aren’t entirely drawn on racial lines, my play is called ‘Cottagers AND Indians’ NOT ‘Cottagers V.S. Indians’. On my reserve, at least one local businessman has sympathy for the Cottager position”. 

This was a statement by Drew Hayden Taylor referring to some Indigenous people, such as Bear Taylor, who are not fighting a constant battle with other members of the community. This is evidence that your origins do not determine your capability of fitting into a multicultural society.

Topic 2 - Men vs Women Jubliee Video

In the Jubilee video, the activists were having a healthy discussion about men’s rights and feminism. Essentially, they were figuring out how men and women can live together. 
They needed to understand the other side, and what their needs and wants are, so everyone can accommodate them. 

Topic 3 - Workforce

Work is a part of life. Learning how to work together allows us to live together. This connects to me through my co-op experience and I learned to be flexible for and with my co-workers. If everyone did not understand our needs

Topic 4 - Laws

Laws are guidelines for us to live together. In a democratic country like Canada, laws are decided based on days or weeks or longer worth of discussion coming from different political perspectives. Riparian rights are a great example due to the fact that their existence helps us divide up land ownership. The lack of a law to divide the lake is the exact problem that the characters in Cottagers and Indians are facing. Therefore, if well-thought-out laws are created, it acts as a railing to guide us so that we can live together.

Topic 5 - The title Cottagers AND Indians

D. Taylor mentions how the versus is not in the title, instead, it is Cottagers and Indians. This implies that the play is about two groups trying to reach common ground and not one about fighting. This can is apparent in the play as Maureen and Arthur converse to understand each other’s current situations and perspectives. In the real events that Cottagers and Indians is based on, Larry is the one who is trying to resolve this conflict when he tries to share the land with James Whetung. However, James feels the need to be impactful about the message he is trying to spread. This does not discredit James’ willingness to live together with the cottagers. It is just that he feels the cottagers are not meeting his need for manoomin.

Topic 6 - Sympathy
Quote:
“On my reserve, at least one local business man has sympathy for the Cottager position”. Again, this refers to Bear Taylor, who learned to live together with the Cottagers. As the owner of a boating business, he is probably used to doing business with people who are not Indigenous. Bear can sympathize with the cottagers because he sees their point of view, which is that the lake should be clear and safe for people. If James can understand the cottagers’ point of view, then this conflict would have never arisen in the first place. Therefore, sympathizing with others and seeing their perspective allows us to live together. 

Topic 7 - Jordin Tootoo

In his autobiography, Jordin talks about how everyone in the land looks out for each other. This is because, in the land, a wrong move or lack of cooperation can spell life or death. This is how the community in Rankin Inlet survives together. They learn how to put aside personal feelings and help each other when in need. In this sense, the people of Rankin Inlet learn to literally live together without dying.
